Eric LaRose comments: 

There are a number of important cultural differences and anchoring effects that make many people skeptical of the validity of happiness ratings across countries. 
I would suggest including country dummy variables (I.e., fixed effects) in your models so that you're looking at how happiness varies within a country as these factors change over time, 
rather than looking at how happiness varies both over time and across countries.


Eric LaRose , Nov 5 at 7:38pm

Idea: Examine the factors that are predictive of happiness/life satisfaction. 

Data: 
1. Hone in on one "happiness" metric and use that as your outcome. This will be easier than building many different models with different measures of happiness. 
Technically all the happiness/LS measures should be highly correlated with one another. If they're not, you should explore why. 
For example, the self-reporting in OWiD might make it more likely to over-report happiness levels vis-as-vis a more objective third party measure. 
Generally, for this project, I think you should use the measure that has the longest time series. 

2. I'm glad that you're interested in the POLITY data. I agree that political and regime questions are key to understanding society-wide efficiency metrics like satisfaction. 
One data source that you might find really useful for this project is the Varieties of Democracy (VDEMs) dataset. 
This data captures a lot of social-civic characteristics of a country but also equality and government encroachments. Look at these data. 
I think you'll see their value on this prediction task right away, and the insights you pull from this model could be really illuminating. 

3. We'll talk about interpretability methods for ML models on week 13. So the reliance on "coefficients" isn't necessary. 
We have ways of easily backing out marginal effects from more flexible (and usually more predictive) models. 

Overall: Sounds like a great project! Really interested in seeing what you come up with (especially if you decide to incorporate the VDEMs data)

My Notes:

1) Explore fixed effects by adding a country dummy variable
2) Use the happiness variable with the longest time series
3) Look into the Varieties of Democracy (VDEMs) dataset
4) Look into interpretability methods